The Joe Rogan experience.
It's so interesting to me that breathing and breath work and
knowing how to breathe properly is it's not common knowledge,
but it's so critical to health and it's free.
It's not like we're not talking about something that requires devices or,
or like a long learning curve or just,
just some of these benefits.
Oh, so, so many of them, and especially the most simple ones, right?
Anyone can breathe in six seconds in six seconds out.
If you want to really go up to the next stage and figure out what breathing can
really do for you on a, on a bigger and more powerful level, you can do TUMO.
You can do Wim Hoff. You can do holotropic. You can do Koreas.
You can do pranayama as they're all doing the same thing.
Tropic I've I haven't done it, but it makes you trip. Right?
It's an interesting experience. What was that like for you? Uh, you know,
I know a lot of people have found profound benefits from this. Uh,
they used it, um, in a hospital,
11,000 people were put through this thing and they showed it was more effective
than any other therapy. Me personally,
that the science is much more thin in holotropic breathwork.
And what I had been told by the instructors kind of threw me off where they're
like, they sit you in a room and they blast music.
And for three hours you breathe as hard as you can.
And they told me that you're going to be able to enter into the space because so
much oxygen is getting into your body. The opposite is happening.
You were inhibiting blood flow to your brain.
And so your brain is processing that as a threat.
And sometimes you inhibit so much blood flow that perhaps your brain is
interpreting this as though you are dying,
which is why so many people have this reaction where they said,
I am reborn after holotropic and that's awesome.
I don't want to take that away from anyone, but,
but what I've seen is that this side there is not,
there's been a ton of subjective, anecdotal studies,
not a ton of a few of them, but the actual science behind it. No,
one's gone into an MRI and looked at what's really happening and that's
something I really want to do.
And hopefully I'm going to be doing in the next next few months just for cure.
That makes sense. If people are having psychedelic experiences,
cause many psychedelic experiences are tied to near death experiences.
A lot of people that have near death experiences,
they report these moments that mimic what a lot of people have
experienced on psychedelics. Yep.
So what they're doing through this holotropic breathing they're harming
themselves, right? Or do we not know?
No, not, not that I know of. Um, the,
the doctor who put 11,000 people into there, nobody had any problems.
There were no side effects. So I've heard that some people can, can freak out.
I heard that there's possible bowel issues involved and uh, some,
some real meltdowns in, in the class that I took,
I wasn't sure how much was psychosomatic and how much was actually because of
the breathing.
I had a pretty strange experience where a guy turned into a Wolf for awhile,
um, and went humping around the room. Oh,
so a guy not to,
you wish if it were a real Wolf,
that would have been incredible, but.
He thought he was a Wolf. He inhabited the body. He was just an.
That's possible too. And just like, act it out. Or.
Maybe he really became a Wolf. We will never know,
which is why this stuff should be studied. You know,
there's a lot of talk that breathing this way will trigger endogenous
DMT. And that's the reason people trip out so hard.
I tried to do a study in which I would breathe this way and they would take
blood before and after. But the scientists that I was talking to said,
it would be such a small amount. They wouldn't be able to detect it.
So there there's a lot of gray area, which to me is not a bad thing. It's great.
There's still mysteries to breath. There's mysteries to the human body. Right.
Um,
and if people are finding great benefit from this and there's no side effect,
then, then that's great. I just found it was a little,
little thinner than the other techniques, like Wim Hof method or like Priya.
Um, no, I, this guy that had this experience and he turned into, well,
did you talk to him before?
Awesome guy, super solid.
He was a lawyer working in San Francisco and left and
went to live off the grid in a cabin in Mendocino,
which is completely legit and admirable. Um, and he was a,
he was a groovy dude, uh, and afterwards really warm, welcoming guy.
So I don't want to take away any, any process that he went through. Uh,
he said it was very cleansing for, for himself. And I think that that's,
that's great. You're a very nice guy.
I wish I was a little might have to refer to, to rip on it. Right. You know.
I understand. I understand. Yeah. I'm just saying,
you're a very nice guy with your disclaimer. I'd like to talk to him.
You know, where we can find him he's out in the Tundra right now.
You gotta go hunt him down. Is he? No, I have no idea maybe.
Right. Maybe he's got a, like a caribou in his mouth, um, could be,
so this guy ran around, did he have clothes on? We do this.
Yeah. He was, uh, he was scratching his crotch a little bit, um,
and growling and growl and it got it got interesting. Yeah. Everyone saw it.
Uh, and again, you know, he was going through his process. That was cool.
But the whole time I was watching him breathing and he wasn't really breathing
in any differently than me.
Cause what you do is you have a half the class or the sitters for the people who
are breathing and you watch over these people in case they have problems.
So I was a sitter during this process. I was not breathing.
And I was looking at as respiration really didn't look any different.
So I'm wondering how much of this is, is the set and setting of this.
You're in Mendocino, you're at a hot Springs. There's really loud music,
fake lute music is, you know, that's,
that's something I wish they could have worked on a little bit. I wish.
Um, but it was a lot of like fake keyboard loots and symbol,
the fake tinny symbol crashes, the, the Maxim, uh
[inaudible] that's.
The academies. Yeah. Well that would seem like, you know,
when you talk about set and setting,
that would seem to be like a terrible set and setting.
Well, a lot of people, uh, enjoyed that music and, and good, good,
good for them. It would be interesting to mix it up with,
with three hours of death metal and just see where that would take
some good. Yeah.
Yeah. Um, so when you did it, so you were a sitter,
but then you also did it. Right. And when you did it, what did you experience?
Well, it definitely affects you because you're breathing in a certain way.
It's going to affect your physiology. So I got really cold. I got really hot.
I got really Spacey. I felt like I was kind of dreaming for a while.
Three hours is a long time to breathe as hard as you possibly can,
but the shifts in temperature and in circulation because the body's trying to
compensate. Right? So the more your breathing,
your pH is going to be, you know, going down. So you're becoming more alkaline.
So, so your body doesn't like that.
It really wants the pH because all the cellular function happen at a certain pH
at some point for, so it was, to me,
it was fascinating to feel my body fighting against this and constantly trying
to balance itself throughout the whole thing. But it's definitely Spacey.
There's no doubt about it. Uh,
you are extremely lightheaded. You feel very high. Uh,
I was talking to Ben Greenfield about it and he said it was the most profound,
spiritual experiences he's ever had, uh, just by breathing.
And a lot of people say the same thing. I, you know,
those subjective experiences are cool,
but I think it would be a lot more interesting to find out what happens to
everybody,
not just one person when they do this and to look at the brain and to look at
the body and really analyze that to,
to see if there's some physiological reaction.
We know what's happening with blood flow to the brain.
We know what happens to the brain when it's denied blood for blood flow to
certain areas. But, but how does that affect us psychologically afterwards?
How does it affect us physically?
I think these are good questions and it'll be interesting to find out.
Did it take you to feel like you recovered from that experience?
Uh, pretty, pretty quickly. Um,
I went outside afterwards and drank a beer in my car and just sorta re-centered.
Um, but, but it was mostly just, uh, the,
the feeling of extreme lightheadedness dreaminess, um,
and then everything just sort of boils back down in your back and
Mendocino at the hot tubs, you.
Know? And when, when they sell you on this, like what, what,
when they have a class for holotropic breathing, what are they,
what are they saying it's going to do well, you.
Can't claim any medical benefits, right? Because the FDA would come after them.
But, but they say it is a spiritual journey. And for many people it is. And,
and I think that's a wonderful thing that they're getting benefit from this. Um,
and they use this,
this fuzzy language like that because they can't say it's going to help with
your asthma. They can't say, but,
but what's interesting is there are other methods like Korea, Sudarshan, Kriya,
60 independent studies, and is so similar to holotropic the differences.
You don't breathe super hard for three hours.
You breathe extremely intensely for about five minutes, then slow it down.
But let me, uh, holotropic breathing first before creation.
So holotropic breathing. What is the actual technique? Like how does it,
how do you do it?
You breathe as hard and as fast as you.
Are able to breathe, big, deep breaths, whatever you want to do,
whatever you want to do, you can do that.
You breathing through the nose, through the mouth.
Whatever you want to do they say through,
through the mouth is going to allow you to get more air in. And this was, um,
yeah. Yeah. You'll.
Get more air in larger volume. Yep.
Yeah, for sure. And this was created, um,
in the seventies by Stanislav Grof who is a psychiatrist, um,
who was one of the first test subjects of LSD.
And he started using LSD at Johns Hopkins and in other universities and found it
had this profound effect for people with schizophrenia and other serious
problems. It got banned in what, 68.
And so he wanted to find a way to allow people to have these experiences without
the drug. And so he developed this specifically to mimic the effects of LSD.
So, and he's, he's written 12 books on this stuff.
Some of the science, mostly the psychology of what's happening with it. Uh,
I wish that there was some more hard science to it. There there's not yet,
but hopefully that's forthcoming in.
That number three hours. Is that consistent? They've.
Been it. It's interesting when I did this and this, this was several years ago,
it was three hours. So you, you had to go three hours now,
they're they're doing,
I guess that was too hard for a lot of people they're doing these hour sessions,
which is, uh, which is news to me. Um.
Yeah, everybody wants to be Swami Rama.
Nobody wants to live in a cave at 30 years. Three hours is the miracle, man.
That's too much time, bro. You.
Got it. But if you're going to go into that zone, I think you want the,
the F the full pie. Not, not just the piece. Yeah, I would imagine. Um,
but I guess it's, it's pretty hard for people to do that. For that.
I've had some friends who've done the holotropic breathing.
One of the reasons why I asked you this, and, uh,
these friends are pretty hardcore psychedelic experimenters,
and they found it very profound.
And they said that they could achieve states that are very similar to, uh,
psychedelic experiences.
You hear that all the time and you didn't find that.
I found it very lightly. Uh, I did not go into the,
the spectral universe.
And you've done that before. Have you had psychedelic experiences?
I have. I went to college. Um, but,
but I did not dabbled too deeply.
All these disclaimers. My mom's my mom. I understand. Okay. You can wink.
Okay. I got it.
[inaudible].